# Figures
Most figures require access to the databases (`photoidentification_cells.h5` and `inactivation_cells.h5`), the clustered ephys data, the behaviour data, and the .npz files produced by the main generate files.

## ArchT histology
This figure is one of the figures sent during the appeal, and depicts two example brain slices showing the extent of ArchT transfection in a PV-Cre and SOM-Cre mouse. This figure is produced by running `archt_transfection.py`.

## SI by recording location
This figure is one of the figures sent during the appeal, and shows the correlation between SI and cortical area (primary vs. non-primary auditory cortex) and the correlation between SI and depth. This figure is produced by running `SI_by_recording_location.py`.

## Onset responses
This figure is one of the figures sent during the appeal, and shows the distribution of onset SIs for all cell types, as well as the effect PV and SOM inactivation has on onset SIs. This figure is produced by running `onset_SIs.py`.

## Untuned responses
This figure replicates Figure 6 (Differences in PV and SOM responses), but including all PV and SOM cells, including untuned cells and those tuned to a frequency different to the centre frequency presented. This figure is produced by running `figure_responses_all_PV_SOM_untuned.py`. The data for this figure is generated by `generate_responses_all_PV_SOM_untuned.py`.

## Pure tone characterisation
This figure replicates Figure 2 (Characterisation of bandwidth tuning), but with pure tone responses included. This figure is produced by running `figure_example_characterisation_pure_tone.py`.

## Raw data inactivation
This figure replicates Figure 2 (Characterisation of bandwidth tuning), but using raw data instead of model fits. This figure is produced by running `supplement_figure_characterisation_of_responses_raw_data.py`.

## Pure tone inactivation
This figure replicates Figure 8 (Effect of PV/SOM inactivation on suppression), but with pure tone responses included. This figure is produced by running `figure_inactivation_pure_tone.py`.

## Raw data inactivation
This figure replicates Figure 8 (Effect of PV/SOM inactivation on suppression), but using raw data instead of model fits. This figure is produced by running `supplement_figure_inhibitory_cell_inactivation_raw_data.py`.

## Individual reports
This script creates a figure for each individial cell included in Figure 2 (Characterisation of bandwidth tuning), showing this cell's response to laser, pure tone, AM, and bandpass noise stimuli. Done by running `individual_reports.py`.

# Scripts
These do not produce figures, but just make some calculations that may be included in the manuscript.

## Change in suppression
This script calculates the percent change in SI seen after PV/SOM inactivation in the top 25% of suppressed cells. Done by running `change_response_percentage.py`.

## Cells preferring pure tones
This script calculates what percentage of identified PV, SOM, and excitatory cells reach their peak firing rate at the pure tone stimulus. Done by running `percent_cells_prefer_pure_tone.py`.
