# Manuel's scripts
*Here you will find the most used files*
 - comparison1Plot.py: code to plot the mean pupil's size changes across trials for 1 video. This include a trace plot and a bar plot.
 - comparison2Plots.py: code to plot the mean pupil's size changes across trials for 2 videos. This include a trace plot and a bar plot.
 - comparison3Plots.py: code to plot the mean pupil's size changes across trials for 3 videos. This include a trace plot and a bar plot.
 - comparison4Plots.py: code to plot the mean pupil's size changes across trials for 4 videos. This include a trace plot and a bar plot.
 - comparison6Plots.py: code to plot the mean pupil's size changes across trials for 6 videos. This include a trace plot and a bar plot.
 - comparison6_gonogo_V3.py (most used and newest code): code to plot the mean pupil's size changes across trials for 6 videos with randomized frequency pairs. This include a trace plot, bar plot, mean normalized pupil area across videos per frequency type plot, mean pupil size for each frequency type plot.


## testFiles directory
*Here you will find test files*
- check_facemap_rois_dtype.py: contains a function to find any given item from a dictionary within the output "proc" file generated from the Facemap videos.
- facemap_shareaxis_plotting.py: shows how to share axis with matplotlib.pyplot. In this case, the data from the output "proc" file from Facemap was used.
-  how_to_plot1.py: code to plot the following plot https://matplotlib.org/stable/_images/sphx_glr_simple_plot_001.png
-  how_to_plot2.py: code to plot the following plot https://matplotlib.org/stable/_images/sphx_glr_subplot_001.png
-  list_of_variables.py: contains the expected variables from the "proc" file and what should they contain.
-  plotting_8_figures.py: how to plot 8 consecutive figures (each one with 2 subplots) with matplotlib.pyplot. The data used was from the output "proc" file from Facemap.
-  plotting_with_time_axis.py: code that shows how to obtain the time of a video so it can be plotted in the X axis with a matplotlib.pyplot plot against the pupil area of a rodent (or any other given stimulus). The data used comes from a "proc" file as well. This is only a draft.
-  plotting_with_time_axis_2.py: this code shows how a plot about pupil dilation vs time should look like in a pupil dilation study with rodents.
-  testingScripts.py: this code has nothing important. Its intended use is to try and play with commands related to plot creation, data slicing, indexing, or any other strategy to obtain desired results.
-  test_plot_with_axis.py: this code contains a draft to play with plots creation, axis sharing, etc. Nothing important is contained in here.
-  pupil_change_onsetStimulus.py: Code that shows how to obtain the onset values for a stimulus.
-  comparison6_gonogoPlots.py: First code made to obtain mean pupil size for randomized frequencies change
-  comparison6_gonogo_V2.py:  Second version of the code made to obtain mean pupil size for randomized frequencies change
-  comparisonPupilPlotsPure001.py: First code draft to create the comparison1Plot.py code but with mkv's videos outputs
-  comparisonPupilPlotsPure002.py: First code draft to create the comparison2Plots.py code but with mkv's videos outputs
-  comparisonPupilPlotsPure003.py: First code draft to create the comparison3Plots.py code but with mkv's videos outputs
-  mp4ComparisonPlotsMp4Pure001.py: First code draft to create the comparison1Plot.py code but with mp4's videos outputs
-  mp4ComparisonPlotsMp4Pure002.py: First code draft to create the comparison2Plots.py code but with mp4's videos outputs
-  mp4ComparisonPlotsMp4Pure003.py: First code draft to create the comparison3Plots.py code but with mp4's videos outputs
-  originalComparisonPlots.py: First code made to plot three different videos (positive negative control, and an experimental session) using mkv's videos output. 
-  originalComparisonPlots_Without_WeirdValues.py: Code made to evaluate the mean pupil's size behavior without NaN values contained in the pArea (pupil area) variable
-  PDR_kHzPlot.py: First draft code trying to plot the mean pupil's size when two random frequencies were played
-  pupilDilationPlots.py: First code draft to plot the trace plot used the code "comparisonXplot.py"

## temeritysCode directory
- temerity4plots.py: Temerity's code to plot 4 videos outputs
- temerity4plots: plots generated by Temerity's code
