- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
# Defining parameters for names and subjects for study
## `studyparams.py`



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
# Producing a generic database
## `database_generate.py`
This script will generate a database with all clusters filtered by ISI and quality. The function that creates the database excludes clusters with ISI > 0.05 and spikeQuality < 2. You can run this script from an iPython terminal after clustering and it will create a complete database from the raw data and inforec for a given subject or set of subjects (subject(s) specified in studyparams.py). The database is then saved as a .h5 file to the local machine.

## Database contents
The initial database is generated by `celldatabase.generate_cell_database_from_subjects()`. It contains columns according to the inforec files (`'subject'`, `'date'`, etc) and the spike sorting results (`'cluster'`, `'spikeShape'`, etc). The columns produced by this database can be found in the documentation for celldatabase.

## Statistics
## `significance_test.py`
This script calculates the pValues between the firing rates between an oddball and standard frequency to determine how many cells showed significantly increased firing in response to the oddball presentations.



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
# Reports
## `generate_reports_all_cells.py`
This generates a report for each cell, showing white noise (noiseburst) cell response (raster) and waveform, noiseburst ISI, tuning curve (raster), the oddball and standard paradigm responses (rasters) and PSTHs for the oddball and standard tones. The PSTH compares the high(low) frequency standard to the high(low) frequency oddball. All reports require access to the database, the clustered ephys data, and the behavior data.

The reports are saved in a location specified in `settings.py` (FIGURES_DATA_PATH).



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
# Figures
The following scripts generate a single plot for a specified cell. They are useful for presentations/posters.

## `graph_oddraster.py`
This script generates a raster plot of the oddball paradigm presentation separated by trial and frequency for a single cell.

## `graph_overlappsth.py`
This script generates a PSTH with the high freq. oddball, high freq. standard, low freq. oddball, and low freq. standard in one plot.

## `graph_psth.py`
This script generates two figures - one PSTH for the high frequency as an oddball and standard, and another PSTH for the low frequency as an oddball and standard.

## `graph_stdraster.py`
This script generates a raster plot of the standard paradigm presentation separated by trial and frequency for a single cell.

## `graph_tuningcurve.py`
This script generates the tuning curve plot when logarithmically spaced frequencies were presented to the mouse to determine the response range.

## `graph_waveform.py`
This script generates the spike waveform for the cell during the noiseburst, tuning curve, oddball, or standard sessions.
